PRESENTATION.md, before:

# This document is required.

## How to download Volatility for Linux, Windows, and Mac:
- Head over to this github repo and clone the repository
```git clone git@github.com:volatilityfoundation/volatility3.git```
- The most current version of volatility requires Python 3.7.0 or later
- You can download the latest Python version from the web and the necessary dependancies with the following command: 
```pip3 install -r requirements-minimal.txt```
- cd into the volatility3 directory
- You can now run volatility3 commands using ```python3 vol.py COMMAND```
- You can see the possible commands to run with volatality using the -h flag: ```python3 vol.py -h```
- Note: You may want to create an alias to this program for ease of access by adding this to your .bashrc/.profile: 
```alias volatility='python3 path/to/directory/vol.py'```

## How to perform volatile memory acquisition

### Linux
- We'll use a program called AVML to create a memory image
- Run this command: ```wget https://github.com/microsoft/avml/releases/download/v0.11.2/avml``` to download the program```
- To make it executable, run ```chmod a+x path/to/avml```
- To use the program, simply run ```avml <FILENAME>``` to a acquire a memory image and dump it to a file
- Now we are ready to analyze this image using Volatility

### Windows
- We'll be using a program called DumpIt.exe

### MacOS




SAMIN WORK

### WRITEUP:
- Volatility is a memory forensics tool that is used to analyze memory dumps
- It is the most widely used framework to extract digital artifacts and information from volatile memory or RAM
- Some uses of Volatility include listing running processes, closed/open networks, internet history, hashed passwords, and retrieving commands entered into the terminal

### GETTING STARTED


### NOTES
- A memory image is a programming pattern in which data stored in the database resides in the memory → more simply it is a copy/snapshot of a machines virtual memory saved to a file for easier analysis and viewing
- Volatility uses multiple plugins to extract information from a memory dump
- Before analysis you must identify the type of memory dump image
Extracting the memory itself can be performed in a variety of ways and using multiple tools which most often output a .raw file


When using a plugin you must specify the OS type
.windows
.mac
.linux
To see the possible plugins use the help menu of volatility ```python3 vol.py -h```

Commit message:

added some different volatiltiy plugin info PRESENTATION.md

PRESENTATION.md, after:

# This document is required.

## How to download Volatility for Linux, Windows, and Mac:
- Head over to this github repo and clone the repository
```git clone git@github.com:volatilityfoundation/volatility3.git```
- The most current version of volatility requires Python 3.7.0 or later
- You can download the latest Python version from the web and the necessary dependancies with the following command: 
```pip3 install -r requirements-minimal.txt```
- cd into the volatility3 directory
- You can now run volatility3 commands using ```python3 vol.py COMMAND```
- You can see the possible commands to run with volatality using the -h flag: ```python3 vol.py -h```
- Note: You may want to create an alias to this program for ease of access by adding this to your .bashrc/.profile: 
```alias volatility='python3 path/to/directory/vol.py'```

## How to perform volatile memory acquisition

### Linux
- We'll use a program called AVML to create a memory image
- Run this command: ```wget https://github.com/microsoft/avml/releases/download/v0.11.2/avml``` to download the program```
- To make it executable, run ```chmod a+x path/to/avml```
- To use the program, simply run ```avml <FILENAME>``` to a acquire a memory image and dump it to a file
- Now we are ready to analyze this image using Volatility

### Windows
- We'll be using a program called DumpIt.exe

### MacOS




SAMIN WORK

### WRITEUP:
- Volatility is a memory forensics tool that is used to analyze memory dumps
- It is the most widely used framework to extract digital artifacts and information from volatile memory or RAM
- Some uses of Volatility include listing running processes, closed/open networks, internet history, hashed passwords, and retrieving commands entered into the terminal

### GETTING STARTED


NOTES
A memory image is a programming pattern in which data stored in the database resides in the memory → more simply it is a copy/snapshot of a machines virtual memory saved to a file for easier analysis and viewing
Volatility uses multiple plugins to extract information from a memory dump
Before analysis you must identify the type of memory dump image
Extracting the memory itself can be performed in a variety of ways and using multiple tools which most often output a .raw file

When using a plugin you must specify the OS type
.windows
.mac
.linux
In the case you don’t know the OS or image type of the memory dump you can use the ```imageinfo``` plugin, which assigns the best possible OS profile to the memory file

To see the possible plugins use the help menu of volatility ```python3 vol.py -h```
To use plugin follow format ```python3 vol.py -f ‘FILENAME’ imagetype/OSname.PLUGINname```

PLUGINS
**info**: information about the host running the memory dump
Format: ```python3 vol.py -f <file> windows.info```
**pslist**: will return the list of processes running from a doubly linked list that tracks processes from the memory; similar to the process list in task manager
Format: ```python3 vol.py -f <file> windows.pslist```
**pscan**: another way to identify running processes but by finding data structures that match ```E_PROCESS```; can help against malware evasion measures
Format: ```python3 vol.py -f <file> windows.pscan```
**pstree**: another way to identify processes using parent process id; provides a more fuller description of processes during extraction
